---
url: /mobydick/release-7.10.03/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.10.03/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.10.05/
next: /mobydick/release-7.10.02/
weight: 156
title: Release 7.10.03
keywords: 
  - Release 7.10.03
description: Mit dem mobydick Release 7.10.03 stehen Ihnen eine Vielzahl an neuen Funtionen zur Verfügung.
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate: 18.09.2015   
releasetyp: Bugfix

---

{{%notice note%}}
Bugfix Release, published: 18.09.2015 
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}
Anyone who has configured the authentication process to be performed against an external LDAP - Server will need to reconfigure this after updating to 7.10.03. This is because a few parameters have been modified in this version and the older settings can not be automatically migrated. Should these settings not be reconfigured after updating, then users who are setup using the authentication method "EXTERNAL" will no longer be able to log into the mobydick client!
{{% /notice %}}

## Modifications


### md-cmd 7.10.03

*   LDAP authentication has been newly implemented and now functions across multiple organisational units (OU)
*   External devices (mobile phones) can now be used to dial out from the client (using REST Originate Dial)
*   It is now possible to test (headset) speech quality and settings by using a specifically designated system extension. 
*   Under Appliance > Services > Telephony, it is now possible to configure the Asterisk-Loglevel for consoles and messages.log
*   Standard system languages (German & English) can no longer by "accidentally" deleted. 
*   Improved the Provisioniong for the Snom M700 (Password changes, Multi Cell mode)
*   Added the missing system setting sys.fax.configure.tries
*   The number of days remaining before subscription licence renewal will once again be displayed correctly.
*   The change password field will once again be available to the system administrator. 
*   The REST Service /services/cdr can now optionally output the data as CSV or XLSX

### md-xmppd 2.07.02

*   Internal code modifications

### md-xmppserver 2.09.02

*   When an Asterisk core reload is performed, then the XMPP server with now reliably refresh the telephone statuses. 
*   Team / Queue presence info will also be updated reliably even during high load periods

### md-client 3.05.02

*   mobydick client is now available in Spanish
*   various English translations have also been improved. 
*   Upon opening the mobydick softphone audio device settings, the devices will be rescanned by the operating system
*   New menu option for making a test call for testing headset quality / settings
*   Should you click on a different letter whilst the phonebook entries are being loaded, the entries will now be correctly displayed.   

### md-updater 1.10.01

*   Internal code modifications

### ex-mobydick 2.09.02

*   Fixed the issue when, under certain circumstances, a /etc/essex/settings.propertiese file could be produced. This will no longer happen