---
url: /mobydick/release-7.11.00/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.11.00/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.11.01/
next: /mobydick/release-7.10.08/
weight: 151
title: Release 7.11.00
keywords: 
  - Release 7.11.00
description: Mit dem mobydick Release 7.11.00 stehen Ihnen eine Vielzahl an neuen Funtionen zur Verfügung.
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate: 15.10.2015
releasetyp: Feature Release

---

{{%notice note%}}
Minor Release, Skill Based Routing (SBR), Call Labels, New Prompts System, Published: 15.10.2015 
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}  
**Important notice about this update:**<br/>
The prompt system has been completely rebuilt. The migrations process performs a full back and stores your existing prompts in /BACKUP/oldprompts_done.tgz before updating. However, you should check in Advanced -> prompts that they are listed after updating and if not then use the back up to restore your prompts as while it is unlikely during the migrations process, some prompts may not be migrated.
{{% /notice %}}


## Modifications

### md-cmd 7.11.00

*   Skill Based Routing has been enabled by using a basis of Queue Scripts and User Skills.
*   The agent routing within a Queue can now be managed using a form of script. 
*   Implemented Call Label Management and Actions.
*   Implemented management tool for user skills.
*   New object: Call Router. This can be integrated in order to make decisions based on actions within the call flow. 
*   Queue Timeout and Queue Priority can now be dynamically set per call using Call Labels.
*   QueueMetrics Integration has been extended. Agents, Queues and Skills will now be completely synchronised.
*   Caller requested agent skills will also now be shared with QueueMetrics
*   A QueueMetrics user can now be authenticated against the mobydick phone system.
*   Implemented freely definable action conditions.
*   New actions type "Inline Script" for individual dialplan functions.
*   Prompt System has been completely revamped, including a complete separation of manufacturer prompts and custom prompts as well as incorporating HTML5 player for the prompts.
*   Prompts will now be included in database backups and can be restored.
*   Prompts must now be unlocked ("Shared") by the system Admin before the prompt is editable using the *50 prompt recording system.
*   Custom prompts can now be exported / imported to and from a archive.
*   Call Waiting Feature can now be activated per user.
*   Telephone menus and user interfaces will now be displayed in English (or German) depending on the preferred user language. 
*   Main menu has been reorganised and a new sub menu added "ACD" which stands for Automatic Call Distribution.
*   API: Asterisk DB Values in the Key Chain /API can now be set and requested per REST, XMPP and FlexPanel.
*   Simplified generation of REST Access Data via the web UI: Information - Developers

### md-xmppd 2.08.00

*   Internal code modifications

### md-xmppserver 2.10.00

*   Agent holding times will now be also communicated to QueueMetrics 
*   API: labels which have been set are now also contained within the xmpp base.ChannelEvent.
*   API: it is now possible to simultaneously login/log out/pause yourself in multiple queues.
*   API: Asterisk DB Values in the Key Chain /API can now be set and requested per REST, XMPP and FlexPanel.
*   API: xmppuser.UserInfo now also contains the set skills of logged on users.
*   Fixed the problem with the telephone display after an Asterisk reload/restart.
*   Fixed the issue with Queue Counters during high loads.

### md-client 3.06.00

*   Call Labels and their values will now be displayed during an active, ongoing call.
*   Windows Client can now be installed in the same directory for multiple users. 
*   On Windows workstations the graphical popups notifications no longer steal the "Active Window" focus from other applications
*   New Flexpanel Widget for changing/monitoring an Asterisk DB value using a button
*   New Flexpanel Widget for setting/monitoring an Asterisk DB value using a sliding scale (Slider)
*   New client language: Arabic
*   New client language: Spanish
*   New client language: Serbian
*   Java Runtime raised to 1.8.0-60
*   E-mail addresses will no longer be shortened within the info screen after clicking in the roster.

### md-sound 1.00.00

This packet replaces the previously used md-prompt-en and md-prompt-de packets.

*   Spanish prompts have been integrated
*   Some error scenarios which result in a "beep" or "beeper" notification being played back now used a dedicated prompt file and can therefore be adapted to suit needs.

### md-snom-data 3.07.00

*   Internal code modifications

### md-tapi 2.03.00

*   Internal code modifications

### md-updater 1.11.00

*   Internal code modifications

### ex-mobydick 2.10.00

*   Asterisk app_queue for Script Based Routing has been modified.
*   Command line tool "jq" has been integrated for JSON operations within the shell.
