---
url: /mobydick/release-7.12.03/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.12.03/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.12.04/
next: /mobydick/release-7.12.02/
weight: 141
title: Release 7.12.03
keywords: 
  - Release 7.12.03
description: 
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate:  17.08.2016
releasetyp: Bugfix

---

{{%notice note%}}
Bugfix Release, Published: 17.08.2016
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

## Modifications

### md-cmd 7.12.03

* Password lenght restrictions will now be validated. For technical reasons, the password length is restricted to 25 characters.
* All files within the /var/log/jobs directory will now be automatically cleaned up.
* New device configuration menu functionality: device ring "delays" (wait internal / external) & "timeouts" can now be modified and simultaneously applied to a complete range of devices.
* Resolved the issue relating to displaying voicemail phone numbers.
* Within user display names and work location names, it is no longer possible to use "/". Existing entries containing "/" characters will be automatically converted to "-".
* Icinga now checks whether the Update-Task (050399) has been successfully completed.
* Updated R-Kom VoIP provider template. 
* Fixed the prompts issue in conjunction with G722 codecs
* When modifying the XMPP domain, the chat archive and additional elements will also be updated accordingly. 
* Fixed the UI issue relating queue configuration in conjunction with "Auto-Fill/Answer Channel". 
* Cronjob error e-mails now also contain the system host names. 
* Action conditions for Skills will now be correctly generated when adding a new Skill.


### md-client 3.07.02

* When opening a URL or starting a script as a client action, call label values can also be given with the request
* The integrated mobydick softphone now supports 3-way-conferencing

### md-sound 1.01.01

*   Updated prompt files

### md-snom-data 3.08.01

*   Added Spanish voice files for Snom telephones
