+++
next = "/howto/"
prev = "/endpoints/cisco-spa-100-series/"
title = "Generic SIP Devices"
weight = 04
url = "endpoints/generic-sip-devices/"
description = "In general, every SIP compatible end point can be operated by a mobydick instance, even over the cloudstack"
+++

In general, every SIP compatible end point can be operated by a mobydick instance, even over the cloudstack.

## Requirements

In order to securely operate a SIP device, it should support the following functions::

* TLS SIP Signaling
* SRTP
* Outbound-Proxies

## Configuration

In our example setup, we are using the following configuration data:

* Proxy DNS Name: `mobydick.example.com`
* mobydick Instance Name: `pascom`

### mobydick Instance

#### Add Device

Log into the appropriate mobydick instance `https://mobydick.exmaple.com/pascom` and under `Devices > Device List` add a new device from using the  **IP-Telephone: Any Manufacturer or Softphone**.

Modify the `Device Login` name or use the automatically generated name.
Take note of the login credentials including `password` which in our example are as follows:

* Device Login: generic-sip-phone`

#### Add User

Under `Users > User List` add a new user and assign them with the device `generic-sip-phone`. For example:

* Login Name: `mpasquay`
* Extension: `100`

#### Apply Jobs

After saving the above changes, a job entry will appear in the Job Box (center top of screen) which will need to be applied. Start the job by clicking on the `green tick`.

### SIP End Points

You must set up the following settings on the SIP Device:
{{% notice tip %}}
Unfortunately, many manufacturers use different terminology for what is the same setting. Don't panic, you will simply need to experiment a little bit. In the table below, the most common terms are listed.
{{% /notice %}}

|Setting|Example Value|Description|
|---|---|---|
|Registrar, SIP-Server|`pascom`|the mobydick Instance name|
|Proxy, Outbound-Proxy|`mobydick.example.com`|The cloudstack Proxy DNS-Name|
|SIP-Port| TCP `5061` | TLS SIP Port|
|Username, Identity, Authuser|`generic-sip-phone`|The device name|
|Password|`*****`| The device password - not the user password!|

#### SIP TLS and SRTP

Refer to the IP device's handbook in order discover how to activate SIP TLS and SRTP.
It is possible that more settings could be required in order to accomplish this.

## Test Call

To test your analog endpoint, simply call `*100` using the device. You should hear the mobydick voicemail box announcement. Moreover, in our example the analog device is now reachable under the extension number `100`. You should also call the extension in order to test incoming calls.
