---
url: /mobydick/release-7.09.00/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.09.00/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.09.01/

weight: 165
title: Release 7.09.00
keywords:
  - Release 7.09.00
description: Mit dem mobydick Release 7.09.00 stehen Ihnen eine Vielzahl an neuen Funtionen zur Verfügung.
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate: 27.03.2015
releasetyp: Feature Release

---

{{%notice note%}}
Minor release, mobydick Video Telephony, SIP Provider Database, Published: 27.03.2015
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}  
**Important information regarding this update:**<br/>
1. From now on only lower case mobydick usernames are possible. Upon updating, all existing users will be automatically migrated. This will not have any affect on the client, as the client does not distinguish between names entered using upper case or lower case characters or even a mixture, meaning your users will not have to make any changes.<br/>
2. The update process will be changed with this version. After any update from version 7.09 onwards, a large proportion of the configurations will be automatically regenerated and Apache, xmpp server and fax server (not Asterisk however) will be restarted. Therefore, the update will require approx. 1 - 2 minutes more than previously, but will result in a more stable and consistent system. During this process, normal phone calls will not be lost. However, the client connection and if necessary video calls will be interrupted. Should you be operating with our integrated softphone, the process may have the unfortunate consequence of disconnecting calls.<br/>
3. With the 7.09.00 version a few previously standalone packets have been compiled together and integrated into md-cmd and now will *no longer* appear in the installed packages list. This affects: <br/>
* md-queuemetrics<br/>
* md-snom<br/>
* md-billing<br/>
* md-yealink<br/>
* md-patton<br/>
* md-berofix<br/>
* md-aastra<br/>
* md-connector
{{% /notice %}}

## Modifications

### md-cmd 7.09.00

*   Usernames are only permitted in lower case form from now on. Existing users will be automatically migrated onto this pattern.
*   Users can now be added to include their preferred language, During the migration process, all users will have the language set to the system default. 
*   Voicemail e-mails will now be sent in the users preferred language.
*   The pre configured user language will now be set correctly for outgoing calls. 
*   Additional prompt languages can now be added using the corresponding menu option.
*   Issue with the "used in" tab within the prompts menu has been resolved
*   When configuring an IVR menu, invalid and timeout entries will now be automatically generated. 
*   Improved workflows and more templates for adding trunks.
*   Added SIPGate Team Account Trunk template
*   Added 1und1 Trunk template
*   Added Telekom IP Telefonie Trunk template 
*   Added Easybell Trunk template
*   Added Provider Deutsche Telefon Trunk template
*   Trunk configurations incl. associated rules can now be imported and exported
*   The host field of a trunk configuration has been moved from basic data to accounts, pro accounts can now be added to different hosts.
*   icinga now also checks the database migration status
*   icinga now also checks the acpid process
*   The chat archive can now be adjusted as well as being completely switched off via cronjob
*   An erroneous mobydick cronjob will now generate & send an e-mail to the administrator
*   Simplified sign in and pausing in multiple queues via system extension number
*   After the administrator login, a warning message will appear should the system status be inconsistent after an update
*   Pickup notifications for team members can now be configured in more depth
*   SIP video support is disabled as default again
*   Problem of receiving team faxes with a subsequent email resolved
*   New REST request in order to collect team live data

### md-xmppd 2.06.00 

*   Integrated jitsi Video bridge, which will also be monitored by icinga
*   Now uses Java Runtime Version 8

### md-xmppserver 2.08.00

*   Video Support for the mobydick Client
*   The chat archive can now be adjusted as well as being completely switched off via cronjob
*   Team statistics now react correctly to logged on agents, who currently do not have an available telephone
*   Pickup notifications for team members can now be configured in greater detail

### md-aastra-data 2.04.00

*   Internal modifications

### md-client 3.04.00

*   Now uses the integrated Java Runtime Version 8
*   Video between Clients independent of the end user devices being used
*   Improved Outlook integration, meaning one can search through more contact folders
*   The agents tab within a team now also display phone status for the corresponding agents. The information must be manually refreshed
*   mobydick Softphone shutdown process is now consistent
*   Should the Softphone not be able to build a SIP connection, a warning message will be displayed
*   The call notification is now displayed for the duration of a call and can now be used to control the call
*   The FlexPanel now disconnects a call correctly when clicking the red handset
*   Within the team view the waiting callers display will be automatically refreshed
*   Users can now select their language directly from within the client  

### md-jasperreports 1.05.00

*   Internal modifications

### md-prompt-de 3.02.00

*   Internal modifications

### md-prompt-en 3.02.00

*   Interne Anpassungen 

### md-snom-data 3.05.00

*   Interne Anpassungen

### md-updater 1.09.00 

*   Modified the update process (see above)

### md-yealink-data 2.03.00

*   Upgraded Yealik Firmware V72

### ex-mobydick 2.08.00

*   acpid integrated
*   Java Runtime 8 integrated
*   Resolved issue relating to unintentional faxmaster_notify. The default value is now set to "never"
