---
url: /mobydick/release-7.12.05/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.12.05/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.13.00/
next: /mobydick/release-7.12.04/
weight: 139
title: Release 7.12.05
keywords:
  - Release 7.12.05
  - mobydick phone system release
description: MWith the new mobydick 7.12.05 Release, numerous new and improved functions are now avaialble.
toc: true
lang: en

releasedate:  11.11.2016
releasetyp: Bugfix

---

{{%notice note%}}
Bugfix Release, published: 11.11.2016
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

## Modifications

## md-cmd 7.12.05

* PHP errors encountered during Job Execution will now be noted within the Jobs-Log.
* Fixed the issue relating to adding a connector profiles, when the SMB path or password contained a backslash ( \ ).
* All links from the Login screen Service menu tab now open within a new browser tab.
* Added new SIP Provider trunk template for "Equada".
* When a call is transferred from one queue to another, the custom Queue options will no longer overwrite the configurations of the second queue.
* The extension "0", and extensions with a leading 0 are no longer permitted.
* Resolved issues relating to adding beroNet-CAPI devices.
* Fixed the rarely occuring Race-Condition when restoring a database backup.
* BeroNet Gateways which do not have a Gateway IP configured can now be added to pascom phone systems.
* Asterisk Hints for call forwarding will now be generated on demand.
* Improved language localisations.
* Fixed the problem Icinga database checks resulting from passwords containing certain characters.
* Print-To-Fax with service codes works again.

## md-client 3.07.04

* The Softphone now restarts after a password update.
* Fixed various causes of Softphone crashes.

## md-firmware 2.11.04

* Kernel Fix for CVE-2016-5195 "Dirty Cow"
* Offline Update works again.
* Asterisk Version updated to 11.6-cert15
* Various additional bug fixes
