---
url: /mobydick/release-7.10.00/
linkde: /mobydick/release-7.10.00/
prev:  /mobydick/release-7.10.01/
next: /mobydick/release-7.09.05/
weight: 159
title: Release 7.10.00
keywords: 
  - Release 7.10.00
description: With the new mobydick 7.10.00 Release, numerous new and improved functions are now available.
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate: 26.06.2015 
releasetyp: Feature Release

---

{{%notice note%}}
Minor Release, mobydick Connector, new Telephone Book, Univention Integration, Published: 26.06.2015 
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}  
**Important notice about this Update:**<br/>
After the update, the Linux User "root" and "admin" will have the same password as the Web UI "admin"
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}  
**Notice for snom M700 Users:**<br/>
If you already have a snom M700 DECT System in operation, this system will be identified by mobydick 7.10 upon the next reboot of a sender, meaning it will also be newly configured. This will result in the loss of your previously manually configured settings and the end user devices will need to be assigned again. You can avoid this in that you can reconfigure your mobydick DHCP server before updating to md 7.10.
{{% /notice %}}


## Modifications

### md-cmd 7.10.00

*   SRTP Media encryption can now be activated more simply via "Services > Telephony" .
*   Asterisk Bind Addresses, Codecs as well as SIP-TCP Support can now be configured under  "Services > Telephony"
*   Icinga SIP check now takes into account the configured Asterisk Bind Addresses.
*   Number pools for extensions have been implemented.
*   If a new user or queue (among others) be added, an extension will be automatically suggested.
*   Connector-Imports can now be carried out without extension numbers as the extension will be automatically added from the number pool
*   The Excel Importer can now also added mobydick softphones as well.
*   A random PIN will be generate for new users.
*   Users can be added without passwords. These users will NOT be able to access the client.
*   Autoprovisioning Support for snom M700 Multicell DECT System and Handsets
*   The Connector has been completely revamped and now includes a profile database as well as being able to import hierarchical data.
*   A new easy to use template for importing data from a Univention Corporate Server (UCS) or MS Active Directory is now available
*   Connector-Profiles can now be down and uploaded. 
*   The Connector can now extract the to be imported data from CIFS/SMB/Windows-Share when importing from a CSV file
*   Should a doubled column name be encountered when importing via the CSV connector profile, these will now be number instead of being discarded.
*   Connector simulations now display a maximum of the first 500 datasets 
*   The LDAP Server is now much more efficiently integrated and has direct access to telephone book database data, e.g. a applying a telephone book is no longer necessary.
*   New processing list for telephone books within the Web UI, which can handle a higher number of entries (>100,000).
*   Telephone book REST API has been restructured. 
*   XML telephone book for Aastra/Snom/Yealink have been restructured.
*   The phonebook.edit Role type has been removed. The central telephone book can now be edited directly from within the client, should the user have the assigned permission "Telephone Book Management" or higher. 
*   mobydick users and administrators can now be either internally or externally authenticated via LDAP. Only the system admin must remain local.
*   Linux root and admin accounts will now be matched using the Web UI admin password. A corresponding notification will appear in the web UI (admin account only).
*   Icinga now also checks the availability of external authentication servers. A notification message will appear directly in the login screen should a there be a problem. 
*   The web UI is now available via HTTPS. By unsecured access, a warning will appear along with a link to the login screen. 
*   The Apply menu has been consolidated and summarised to only a few items. 
*   When adding a generic SIP device (e.g. softphone), random access details will now be suggested.

### md-xmppd 2.07.00

*   External authentication has been integrated.

### md-xmppserver 2.09.00

*   External authentication has been integrated.
*   Modifications to a new telephone book structure and new LDAP setup.
*   Start process of the XMPP Server has been improved.

### md-client 3.05.00

*   Linux Client has been revamped. Now contains a suitable Java Runtime and the modydick Softphone.
*   The client now breaks the first login attempt after just 5 seconds, should the server not be reachable.
*   New Flexpanel Widget: shows information regarding the currently logged client users.
*   New Flexpanel Widget: shows Roster Groups.
*   Flexpanel: the phone numbers of incoming calls can now be displayed in more optimal larger sizes.
*   Telephone book has been completely reworked. The personal and company phonebooks are now available as a list and can be managed completely from within the client.
*   Implemented function for to create/display a phonebook entry from an ongoing call, search result or from within the journal .
*   Copying of phone numbers is now possible from all masks.
*   Should the user only have one phone, the associate name will be displayed as read only.
*   The Softphone now automatically uses SRTP if it is activated within mobydick.

### md-snom-data 3.06.00

*   Integrated snom M700 firmware 

### md-tapi 2.02.00

*   A call can now be pickup via TAPI (only on supported devices).
*   Pickup Support.
*   The setup can now be install either a Release or Debug version.

### md-updater 1.10.00

*   Implemented Offline Update.

### ex-mobydick 2.09.00

*   dhcpdump tool has been integrated.
*   LDAP modifications