---
url: /mobydick/release-15.00/
linkde: /mobydick/release-15.00/
next: /mobydick/release-7.14.00/
prev: /mobydick/release-15.01/
weight: 116
title: Release 15.00
keywords:
  - Release 15.00
description: With the new pascom version 15 Release, numerous new and improved functions are now available.
toc: true
lang: en
releasedate: 28.06.2017
releasetyp: Feature Release

---

{{%notice note%}}
**Feature Release:**  
- Exchange Address Book Imports and Synchronisation Function.  
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice tip%}}
Should you have any questions please use the [Community Forum](http://community.pascom.net/forum.php?langid=6 "Visit our Forum").
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice warning %}}  
**Import notice regarding this update:**  
- pascom 15.00 is the official Current Version. mobydick 7.12 will remain as a stable version. mobydick 7.14 will no longer be supported.  
- New versioning scheme: XX.YY - XX is the main version, YY referes to bug fix versions.
- New brand name: **pascom** replaces **mobydick** as product name.
{{% /notice %}}

## Modifications

### md-cmd
* New Connector template for importing Microsoft Exchange address books
* New "repeat simulation" button for the Connector Configuration. 
* Fixed Grandstream Gateway HT701 and HT802 problem.
* New (Community-) Trunk Template for VoIP Provider Teledata.
* Fixed issue relating to support for Snom M700 multi-cell sytems within the cloudstack. 
* Fixed Snom M700 system connectivity issues when TLS is activated.
* Increased stability of Connector imports function.
* Increased stability of calls via Mobile Hub

### md-client
* Improved language localisations.
* Desktop client is now available in Italian.
* Increased reliability of the DATEV master data cache sync.
* Action URLs can not be opened from within the client when the URL contains a label variable. 

### cs-controller
* Repaired "cs container list" command.
* Fixed smaller UI Problems
* The network interface for a proxy can now be selected from a drop down menu.

### cs-proxy
* The "ssldump" and "tcpflow" tools are now available for debugging.
* Quicker load speeds for Yealink Telephone PUI menus (XML menus) when TLS is active.
* Operating system updated to Ubuntu 16.04

### cs-host
* When the cloudstack is installed on a beroNet Appliance, mounted beroNet cards will be detected and can be connected.
