---
url:    /components/management-ui/
next:   /components/proxy-instances/
prev:   /components/overview/
title:   Management UI
keywords:
    - mobydick cloudstack Management UI
    - management of Proxy Instances
    - Backups
    - Complete System Updates
description: The cloudstack Management-UI allows you to manage both mobydick and Proxy Instances as well as create backups and update the complete system.    
toc :    true
weight:  02

---
Through using the cloudstack Management-UI you can manage both mobydick and Proxy Instances as well as creating backups and updating the complete system.

## Access

The cloudstack Management-UI is available from every network card via the Port TCP `8443` and is only accessible per https.

Example URL:
```
https://mobydick.example.com:8443
```

## Dashboard

The Dashboard provides you with an overiew of all your important system information.

In addition, you can also view the current utilisation of your Cloud Licences:

{{% notice tip %}}
Please note, only users from "turned on2" instances will be counted.
This allows you to keep old instances for backup purposes.
{{% /notice %}}

|Field|Description|
|---|---|
|**Licensed Users**|The total number of licensed users|
|**Unassigned Users**|These users are not assigned to any mobydick instance|
|**Assigned but unused**|These users are assigned to a mobydick instance but not being used as fewer users have been added as assigned |
|**Assigned and used**|These users have been assigned to a mobydick instance and also being used as users within the instance|

## mobydick and Proxy Instances

Details concerning Proxy and mobydick Instances can be found in the
[mobydick Instances](../mobydick-instances/) and
[Proxy Instances](../proxy-instances/).

## Images

Images are used by both mobydick and Proxy Instances. Every image can be available in multiple versions. You can see which image is should actually be used from within the mobydick or Proxy instance itself.

Under **Upload new image** you can upload new images.

{{% notice tip %}}
We do not currently make individual images available to download. mobydick
and Proxy Images are rolled out together with the cloudstack complete system update. See [Complete System Update](#complete-system-update) for more details.
{{% /notice %}}

## System

### Complete System Update

Download the newest cloudstack version from https://www.pascom.net/en/download/. The ISO can only be uploaded to the cloudstack via the **Prepare Update**.

{{% notice tip %}}
A cloudstack reboot is required upon updating. Therefore, you should plan a maintenance period accordingly and inform your customers.
{{% /notice %}}

After uploading the ISO, you will be required to perform a system reboot.

By simply closing the Reboot Screen the update will be postponed until the next system restart which can be done at a later point in time. To do this you will then need to reboot your system via the  **Restart** button which will then perform the update.

The update will automatically update the cloudstack core and will generate new images of the mobydick and Proxy instances.

mobydick and Proxy Instances can also be updated separately.

Simply stop the desired instance using the **Stop** option and edit it by clicking **Edit**. Under **Version**, select your desired version and then start the instance again using the **Start** button. The update process will only delay the startup process by a few seconds.

### Cloud Licence

As a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) you will receive a volume licence for the complete cloudstack. New instances can then be assigned with any number of users from the global pool upto the maximum number of users according to your volume licence has been reached.

Under **Update license** you will be able to update your licence code.

## Jobs

The cloudstack performs all operations asynchronously from the Management UI. Within this menu, you have an overview of the all your recently performed jobs and the corresponding Log files.
