---
prev: /components/proxy-instances/
next: /mobydick-clients/
title: mobydick Instances
keywords:
    - mobydick Instances
    - Mutli-tenant Cloud Telephony Solution
description: A mobydick instance can be created for each and every customer, meaning it is possible to imagine Instances as tenants within your hosting setup.
toc: true
weight: 04
url:  /components/mobydick-instances
---

A mobydick instance can be created for each and every customer, meaning it is possible to imagine Instances as tenants within your hosting setup.

The Instances are accessible directly, but rather only reachable over a Proxy.
For more details, please refer to [Proxy Instances](../proxy-instances/).

## Settings

When creating a new mobydick instance, the following settings can be adjusted and setup:

### Instance Name

Within the **Name** field, please enter the desired mobydick instance name. Acceptable characters are `a-z,A-Z,0-9,-`. The instance name will be required for accessing the management UI per browser as well as being used as a Domain for SIP registration purposes.

{{% notice tip %}}
The Instance name must be communicated to the end customer so that they are able to login into the mobydick desktop and mobile clients for example. Therefore, a change to the instance name will result in higher levels of instance administration and should be avoided.
{{% /notice %}}

### Licensing

There are three types of mobydick instance licensing which you can ajust under the **License Mode** option.

#### Community

Without any commercial licensing, it is only possible to add a maximum of two (2) mobydick community instances. Each mobydick community instance can manage upto three (3) users.
This license type is designed for testing and demo purposes and does not need to be added separately - it is automatically included as a fixed component of each mobydick cloudstack installation.

#### Cloud License

As a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) you will receive a volume license for the complete cloudstack. New instances can then be assigned with any number of users from the global pool upto the maximum number of users according to your volume license has been reached.

The cloud license can be centrally managed under `System > Update License`.

#### Dedicated

In special cases, it is possible to license individual instances separately.
This can enable you assign an instance with your NFR license without these users being calculated towards your volume license.

### Memory Limitations

By adjusting the field **Memory** you can assign a specific fixed memory limit to a certain mobydick instance. The following recommendations apply:

|Users|Memory|
|---|---|
| < 10 | 512 MB |
| 10-25 | 768 MB |
| fr 25 | 1 GB |

### Versions

Each instance can be of a different mobydick version to the others, making it possible to bind individual customers to certain mobydick versions. This could possibly be advised for some customers due to compatibility issues with custom (inhouse) developements etc.

## Backup and Restore

At the bottom of the mobydick details page it is possible to create a backup. When creating a backup, the mobydick instance must be running.

{{% notice tip %}}
We recommend that you download the backup from the cloudstack and store it in a secure location.
{{% /notice %}}

In order to restore a backup, the mobydick instance must be shutdown.
